docs install Presto using docker command line on OS X (#20481)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/installation/deploy-docker.rst

=================================
Deploy Presto From a Docker Image
=================================

These steps were developed and tested on Mac OS X, on both Intel and Apple Silicon chips. 

Following these steps, you will:

- install the command line tools for brew, docker, and `colima <https://github.com/abiosoft/colima>`_ tools
- verify your Docker setup
- pull the Docker image of the Presto server and the Presto CLI
- start your local Presto server and Presto CLI
- query your local Presto server using the Presto CLI
- query a remote Presto server using the Presto CLI

> Installing brew, docker, docker-compose, and colima

Reviewer: I don't see where the docker-compose is used in this doc. am I right? But I guess it's nice to install it for other tutorials :-)

Author: Good catch! You're correct it's not used here directly.

===================================================

This task shows how to install brew, then to use brew to install docker, docker-compose, 
and colima. 

Note: If you have Docker installed you can skip steps 1-3. It is recommended that you 
verify your Docker setup by running the command in step 4.

1. If you do not have brew installed, run the following command:

   ``/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install.sh)"``

2. To install the docker command line and `colima <https://github.com/abiosoft/colima>`_ tools, run the following command:

   ``brew install docker docker-compose colima``

3. Run the following command: 

   ``colima start``

> 

Reviewer: Really appreciate that you bring Colima to my attention since I need an alternative for the docker desktop. I checked its documentation and found maybe it's good to put a note here about the default VM the `start` command creates, in case someone may use this to run some heavy queries :-)
```suggestion
*Note*: The default VM created by Colima has 2 CPUs, 2GiB memory and 60GiB storage. If you need to customize the resources for the VM, check this `doc <https://github.com/abiosoft/colima#customizing-the-vm>`_.
```

But if you think it's too much, you can just ignore this.

4. To verify your local setup, run the following command:

   ``docker run hello-world``

   If you see a response similar to the following, you are ready.

   ``Hello from Docker!`` 
   ``This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.``

Installing and Running the Presto Docker container
==================================================

1. Run the following command to download the prestodb-sandbox container from `DockerHub <https://hub.docker.com/r/ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox>`_: 

   ``docker pull ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox``

   Downloading the container may take a few minutes. When the download completes, go on to the next step.

2. To start the Presto server in the Docker container, run the following command:

   ``docker run -p 8080:8080 --name presto ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox``

   This command also assigns the name ``presto`` for ``ahanaio/prestodb-sandbox``.

>    If you see a response similar to the following, the Presto server is running in the Docker container.

Reviewer 2: NIT Since logging seems to be set to "info" level by default, it may be useful to have something here about it logging some startup info before the `SERVER STARTED` message is received

```suggestion
  The Presto server begins logging startup information in the terminal window. Once you see a response similar to the following, the Presto server is running in the Docker container.
```

4. To verify that your Presto server and Presto CLI are communicating together, use the Presto CLI to query your local Presto server. Run the following command at the ``presto>`` prompt:

   ``show catalogs;``

   The response should be similar to the following:

   ::

    presto> show catalogs;
    Catalog
    ---------
    jmx
    memory
    system
    tpcds
    tpch
    (5 rows)
    
    Query 20230614_181140_00000_uutw6, FINISHED, 1 node
    Splits: 19 total, 19 done (100.00%)
    [Latency: client-side: 0:13, server-side: 0:11] [0 rows, 0B] [0 rows/s, 0B/s]
    
    presto>

5. To use the Presto CLI in your local Docker image to connect to a remote Presto server, run the following command: 

   ``docker exec -it presto presto-cli --server Presto-endpoint-URL --user username --password``

   You will be prompted to enter the password for the Presto user, then the ``presto>`` prompt is shown.

6. To verify your Presto server and Presto CLI are communicating together, use the Presto CLI to query your remote Presto server. 
Run the ``show catalogs;`` command at the ``presto>`` prompt and the result should be similar to step 4.

> 

Reviewer: is it possible to also provide an extra section to explain how to clean up the presto container, like: `docker stop presto`. `docker rm presto`?

Author: I'd thought about writing that, and chose to leave it out because I was trying to keep the steps as short as possible. But  because you're asking I've reconsidered, and I think I'll include it. Thanks!
